---
title: "FAQ"
---

# Frequently Asked Questions

Can I develop apps on Simband?
: Simband runs [Tizen](https://www.tizen.org/), and you can develop apps according to Tizen's standards. Our project focuses on building new, innovative algorithms, using the data that comes out of the sensor. Developers are invited to write algorithms in C and C++ running on top of our Simband runtime that read, compute and save data in our [streams](/simband/simband-documentation/semantics-of-simband/types-streams.html). These C/C++ Simband algorithms will run natively in the Tizen application. Learn about [writing algorithms](/simband/simband-documentation/writing-algorithms-using-simband-api.html).

Great, how can I start? Do you have an SDK?
: Very soon; it is already a work in progress. But we call it an **ADK (Algorithm Development Kit)** instead of **SDK**, since you can only develop algorithms on Simband.

Can an algorithm developer get direct access to real-time data?
: Yes. You can access all the data from [SAMI](http://developer.samsungsami.io). We are also working on even cooler developer tool. [Stay tuned.](/simband/simband-changelog.html)

Can I use the SD card for storage and easier transfer of data?
: We don't support SD cards, but the Simband prototype comes with a charger with a USB port. You can connect the USB port to your computer but you cannot expect to extract/transfer the data or any files.

What is the sampling rate of the data generated by Simsense?
: All the data generated from the different sensors of [Simsense](/sensor-module/sensor-module-documentation/simsense.html) is re-sampled at 128 Hz, time-stamped and time-synchronized. We expect that because the streams are synchronized and time-stamped, developers will be able to understand context and correlations between the different sensors and create novel algorithms that were not possible until today.

Simsense has a multichannel PPG. What are the wavelengths of each PPG LED?
: [PPG](/sensor-module/sensor-module-documentation/simsense.html#ppg) wavelength as per the LED data sheet:

: |**LED color**|**Wavelength(nm)**|
|-------------|------------------|
|Blue         |460-470           |
|Green        |520-535           |
|Yellow       |585-594           |
|Red          |644-676           |
|IR           |850-970           |

What is the PPG LED drive current?
: The Simsense PPG should be [calibrated](/simband/simband-documentation/applications/settings.html#sensor-calibration) for every user before capturing PPG data. PPG LED drive current for each PPG channel will be displayed after the calibration process is finished.

How many PPG channels are available on Simband? Which wavelengths are associated with each channel?
: Simband has 6 LEDs and 5 photodiodes, which enables Simband to generate 30 PPG channels. Simband currently exposes 7 channels through its APIs, which cover all the wavelengths from different PPG locations. We think these channels provide the best-quality signals.

:|**Channel name**|**LED color**|**Wavelength(nm)**|
|----------------|-------------|------------------|
|0/A               |Blue         |460-470           |
|1/B               |Green        |520-535           |
|2/C               |Red          |644-676           |
|3/D               |IR           |850-970           |
|4/E               |Green        |520-535           |
|5/F               |Green        |520-535           |
|6/G               |Yellow       |585-594           |
|7/H               |Green        |520-535           |

I am looking for TIA gain, ADC characteristics, bits, reference voltage, etc. for the PPG circuit. Where I can find that information?
: Great question. We have disclosed all the necessary parameters of each sensor circuit available in Simband [here](/sensor-module/sensor-module-documentation/simsense.html). If something you're looking for is missing, raise your hand ... I mean email us :)

I heard Simband was open source. Where is the source code?
: You are right, we plan to make Simband open source. The source code is not available, yet, but if you feel brave you can [request access.](/simband/simband-documentation/simband-source-code.html)

Who is behind Simband?
: Simband is the result of the work of a small, very energetic team. [Here we are](http://www.voiceofthebody.io/images/TeamPicture.png) two weeks before our November 2014 launch.
